[Music]
it's a little riddle for you there long
white and you can see them in the sky
what is it well I used to think it was
old man winters farts but no if you
answered contrails from a jet then
you're the winner but what causes them
ever noticed how on a cold day you can
see your own puff of breath when you
exhale the same exact thing happens to a
plane the temperature at 25,000 feet or
higher which is cruising altitude is
really low about minus 30 degrees
Fahrenheit while the engine burns the
fuel it releases different substances
mostly water and carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere
the cold air condenses and sometimes
even freezes the hot exhaust fumes
creating those white tails which look a
lot like smoke that's why they're often
called condensation trails or contrails
to give you an idea planes like the
Boeing 747 eject around 2 gallons of
water every 3 seconds that's a lot of
water to condense ok but why are these
contrails sometimes long and sometimes
short well this depends on the weather
long contrails form in humid conditions
well low humidity makes them much
shorter and that's how these white lines
can help you predict the weather if you
see long contrails it might mean that a
storm is coming if a plane leaves short
lines then don't worry the weather will
be good even though traveling by plane
is common nowadays these huge steel
birds are still surrounded by secrets
and myths that give birth to a lot of
question so pardon the pun but it's high
time to get more answers number one why
can't planes fly when it's extremely hot
well hot air is less dense than cool air
this means the air molecules are spread
further apart from each other so they
come into contact with the plane's wings
less as a result it's harder for a plane
to take off
it would need a higher takeoff speed
which would require a longer runway
besides planes rely on different
internal machinery and a good part of it
already runs high that's why when the
temperature is 120 degrees Fahrenheit or
higher the plane might be delayed since
the possibility of overheating the
electronics is dangerous too can a plane
fly on one engine as it can especially
if it has one engine okay
even though thanks to technological
improvements engine failures have become
pretty rare they still happen sometimes
due to damage however losing an engine
in flight isn't even considered a
serious problem by pilots this is mainly
because planes that fly over oceans or
for long-distance routes have special
certificates that indicate the exact
time they can operate safely with one
engine for example the Boeing 787 can
fly around 330 minutes without the
second engine 3 do planes oxygen masks
have only 15 minutes of air yes they do
but that's enough for an emergency if
the cabin is be pressurized at a high
altitude the passengers won't be able to
breathe so they use oxygen masks at the
same time the pilot will start
descending right away to get lower than
10,000 feet where it's possible to
breathe normally again and this descent
won't take longer than 15 minutes for
what are those white spiral marks on
airplanes engines these spirals of
different sizes and shapes are for the
safety of the ground crew the ground
crew has to wear hearing protection so
they can't hear the roaring engines of a
plane but when they see the spiral
swirling they know it's not safe to
approach the area also these spiral
marks help to tell which plane is about
to take off if there are several of them
on the ground five is there the safest
seat on an airplane
well most airlines claim that the safest
seat is just a myth but statistics of
airplane crashes beg to differ
they say that this seat is at the back
if you happen to sit near the tail of a
plane you're about 40% more likely to
survive a crash than those in the front
if you need a more specific answer it's
the middle seats in the rear section six
why are there black triangles inside a
plane's cabin these black stickers are
located on about four windows in a cabin
each of them is aligned with the edge of
the wings if a flight attendant believes
that there might be something wrong with
the moving parts of the wings slats or
flat they know exactly which window
provides the best view to check them
also you should choose a seat between
those triangles if you tend to get
motion sickness the planes centre of
gravity is at the wings so you'll have a
smoother trip 7yr airplane windows round
actually at the beginning of the
commercial flying era they were square
but after some time airlines decided
flying at higher altitudes requiring the
cabin to be pressurized but the frequent
pressurization and depressurization
caused the window corners to deform an
even break
turned out round windows can withstand
the pressure of cruising altitude much
better
so square windows were soon replaced for
good eight why does the plane's food
taste bad
well apart from the fact that on board
you'll only get defrosted dishes which
have lost a big part of their flavor the
pressurization of the cabin is to blame
the air in the cabin might be drier than
a desert literally and this numbs a lot
of your taste buds
besides quite often the cabin air can
cause your nasal cavities to swell
making the food taste even more
unappealing 9 is it possible to avoid
turbulence turbulence is disturbances in
airflow the causes can vary some by
weather conditions some by cumulonimbus
clouds which actually are also weather
conditions well it's impossible for
planes to steer clear of turbulence
altogether
why let's do a lot to lessen it by
bypassing areas of heavy turbulence for
the passengers comfort but if you're a
nervous
flier here's a tip for you choose
morning flights because the air is less
bumpy at this time do you think flying
is scary let me know in the comments 10
why do your ears pop during flight ears
pop because there's a rapid change in
pressure when a plane reaches a cruising
altitude or lands there's not enough
time for the pressure inside the inner
ear and the air pressure outside to
equalize and the air trapped inside your
inner ear causes the eardrum to pop if
you don't want ear popping to turn into
pain try chewing gum or yawning to help
your eardrums adjust faster this is also
the reason you'll sometimes hear babies
crying during the descent they have a
hard time equalizing their ears 11 our
planes tray tables the dirtiest thing on
board
sadly trade table surfaces have eight
times more bacteria than the laboratory
flush buttons unfortunately quite often
cleaning crews don't have enough time
between flights to take care of
everything properly so don't forget to
wipe the tray down with a sanitizing
wipe and don't let your food sit on it
by the way seat pockets and seat belt
buckles are almost as dirty twelve what
citizenship does a baby born on board
get well there are several options a
newborn can become the citizen of the
country where the airline is registered
the country over which they were born or
the country where the plane landed the
decision is usually made by the airline
depending on the laws of the countries
involved however the first option is the
most common sometimes such babies get a
bonus from the airline a free
first-class trip to any part of the
world on their 18th birthday 13 why are
most planes white well first because
extra paint would add around 1,200
pounds to its weight and the heavier the
plane the more fuel it burns Airlines
simply don't want to pay the extra money
also the white color keeps a plane cool
by reflecting sunlight and there are
safety reasons it's easier to spot any
cracks damage or oil spills on
white surface plus in case of a crash
the white fuselage will be able to
attract the rescuers attention faster
and number fourteen why are there no
parachutes onboard pudding went on and
jumping out of the plane correctly is no
easy feat you probably wouldn't be able
to do it in an emergency situation
training for skydivers requires many
hours in which they learn all the
details about handling a parachute and
how to land safely what's more even the
most experienced skydivers don't jump
from an altitude higher than 15,000 feet
on top of that adding just parachutes
without helmets and supplemental oxygen
for all passengers would mean making a
plane 8,000 pounds heavier Hey long ago
I used to wear my sport parachute in the
air liner because I didn't want to check
it as luggage I still remember the looks
the other passengers gave me boy was
that fun hey if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
[Music]